# mw2demo
Technical Explanation of Excel Challenge

  Each pivot table has its respective chart that allows us to tell a story with the data that was given. Personally I am interested in three charts generated. The first being "Outcome of Parent Category" the second is a time line that illustrates the outcomes of Parent Categories and lastly the Outcomes based on goals. 

  In the first pivot table named "Outcome of Parent Category" we can see the top three successful activies are as follows: theater, music and film. We also have it filtered by country so imagine you are giving your friend needs a recommendation when they plan on visiting the United States they enjoy theater. With the pivot table we can edit the chart to provide the theater play, as well as the month it will be playing in the United states.

  The second pivot table shows a timeline of outcomes based on Parent Cateogry. With this chart we are able to see that August is the worst month to see any attractions as it has the highest canceled and failed activities. With that being said we might be more inclined to plan something in the month of July as it has the highest number of successful activties but be sure to bring sunblock and stay hydrated as summer tends to be the hottest season in the United States. 
  
  Lastly, from a business perspective we are interested in seeing what moneteary range gives us as investors the highest return on our investment (ROI). There is a range between 10,000 to 20,000 that shows to be the most lucrative as it has a hundred percent success rate and zero canceled or failed activities. Meanwhile, we see that anything above that range is also fairly successful with the exception to anything greater than $50,000. The biggest budgets fail nearly half of the time and ten percent of the time they are canceled. This leads me to believe that big productions are harder to execute and we would have to determine if thirty seven percent is a success rate that investors feel good about.
  
 Every data set has limitiations and our is no exception. For instance, in the Outcomes based on goals we are unable to see what activties fall within the monetary ranges given. Are concerts risker than theatrical plays? or maybe movies are difficult to execute when large groups arrive. I would suggest a cluster chart that cross references the parent category to that of the outcomes based on goal. That way we can use the other pivot charts generated to have a better idea of what activites people might enjoy more, while staying profitable.
 
 
 ###Bonus Justification
  To determine if the average or median best summariezes the data we must look at both standard deviation and variance. Standard Deviation (SD) is defined as the measure of dispersion of values in a given data set from their mean, while Variance measures the variability of values around their arithemetic mean. These two factors have the biggest impact on the average as outliers can skew data greatly. The minimum and maximum can then be used to give us a clearer picture of our entire data set. In our data set we see that zero and sixteen are the lowest data points for failed and successful backers count, respectively. On the other hand, the maximum has six thousand and seven thousand, respectivley. With such a wide data set I would avise that the median is our statistical value to summarize our data because our high variance and high standard deviation. Meaning that data points are very spread out from the mean and one another . 
